# Intraspecific_shifts_seed_germination_phenology
R scripts for the paper *Climate‑driven intraspecific shifts in seed germination phenology: Consequences for native temperate woodland restoration and regeneration*

# Climate-driven intraspecific shifts in seed germination phenology

This repository contains the R scripts for the analyses and modelling reported in:

> Dayrell RLC, Seal CE, White K, Fouce Hernandez E, Gómez Barreiro P, Oliver L, Donaldson A, Chapman T, Mattana E. (2026) Climate‑driven intraspecific shifts in seed germination phenology: Consequences for native temperate woodland restoration and regeneration. *Plants, People, Planet*.

---

## Overview

This repository includes data, and R scripts for all statistical analyses and models presented in the paper.

---

## Requirements

- R (version 4.4.2)
- Developed on macOS (Apple Silicon x86_64-darwin20) — should run on Windows and Linux but not tested
- All required packages and versions are managed via `renv`

### Installing dependencies

After cloning the repository, open the `.Rproj` file in RStudio and run:
```r
renv::restore()
```

This will automatically install all required packages at the correct versions.

---

## How to run

Open the `.Rproj` file in RStudio — this sets the working directory automatically.

Scripts numbering indicate a logical order followed by the paper.

---

## Data

Climatic data were obtained at 1-km resolution using high-resolution geographic coordinates. However, as coordinates have been rounded to one decimal degree (~10-km resolution) to comply with landowner privacy requirements, exact values cannot be fully reconstructed and minor discrepancies may arise. Nevertheless, all data from public domain sources necessary to reproduce the original analyses are provided in the `data/` folder. 

The original datasets generated by this work are publicly available on Figshare. To reproduce the analyses, download the data through the link below and save the files in the `data/csv/` folder before running the scripts.
> Dayrell, R.L.C., Seal, C., White, K., Fouce Hernandez, E., Gómez Barreiro, P., Oliver, L., et al. (2026). Data from: Climate-driven intraspecific shifts in seed germination phenology: Consequences for native temperate woodland restoration and regeneration. figshare. Dataset. https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.31443847

---
